readme.md, before:

# Docker image for Matrix 

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AVENTER-UG/docker-matrix.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AVENTER-UG/docker-matrix)

## Docker Hub

[https://hub.docker.com/r/avhost/docker-matrix/tags/](https://hub.docker.com/r/avhost/docker-matrix/tags/)


## Security

We verify our image automaticly by clair. If you want to see the current security status, please have a look in [travis-ci](https://travis-ci.org/AVENTER-UG/docker-matrix).

## Introduction

Dockerfile for installation of [matrix] open federated Instant Messaging and
VoIP communication server.

The riot.im web client has now his own docker file at [github].

[matrix]: https://matrix.org
[github]: https://github.com/AVENTER-UG/matrix-riot-docker

## Contribution

If you want contribute to this project feel free to fork this project, do your
work in a branch and create a pull request.

To support this Dockerimage please pledge via [liberapay]. 

[liberapay]: https://liberapay.com/AVENTER

Silvio is the godfather of this image. So please be nice and pledge for him via [bountysource] or
[paypal.me/silviofricke]. 

[bountysource]: https://www.bountysource.com
[paypal.me/silviofricke]: https://www.paypal.me/SilvioFricke

## Configuration

To configure run the image with "generate" as argument. You have to setup the
server domain and a `/data`-directory. After this you have to edit the
generated homeserver.yaml file.

Please read the synapse [readme file] about configuration settings.

[readme file]: https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/master/README.rst

To get the things done, "generate" will create a self-signed certificate, which
can be used for federation.

Example:

    $ docker run -v /tmp/data:/data --rm -e SERVER_NAME=localhost -e REPORT_STATS=no avhost/docker-matrix generate

## Start

For starting you need the port bindings and a mapping for the
`/data`-directory.

    $ docker run -d -p 8448:8448 -p 8008:8008 -p 3478:3478 -v /tmp/data:/data avhost/docker-matrix start

## Port configurations

### Matrix Homeserver

The following ports are used in the container for the Matrix server. You can use `-p`-option on
`docker run` to configure this part (eg.: `-p 443:8448`):  
`8008,8448 tcp`

### Coturn server

If you only need STUN to work you  need the following ports:  
`3478, 5349 udp/tcp`  
The server has the following as alt-ports: `3479, 5350 udp/tcp`

For TURN (using the server as a relay) you also need to forward this portrange:  
`49152-65535/udp`  

You may also have to set the external ip of the server in turnserver.conf which is located in the `/data` volume:  
`external-ip=XX.XX.XX.XX`

In case you don't want to expose the whole port range on udp you can change the portrange in turnserver.conf:  
`min-port=XXXXX`  
`max-port=XXXXX`  

## Version information

To get the installed synapse version you can run the image with `version` as
argument or look at the container via cat.

    $ docker run -ti --rm avhost/docker-matrix version
    -=> Matrix Version
    synapse: master (7e0a1683e639c18bd973f825b91c908966179c15)
    coturn:  master (88bd6268d8f4cdfdfaffe4f5029d489564270dd6)

    # docker exec -it CONTAINERID cat /synapse.version
    synapse: master (7e0a1683e639c18bd973f825b91c908966179c15)
    coturn:  master (88bd6268d8f4cdfdfaffe4f5029d489564270dd6)


## Environment variables

* `SERVER_NAME`: Server and domain name, mandatory, needed only  for `generate`
* `REPORT_STATS`: statistic report, mandatory, values: `yes` or `no`, needed
  only for `generate`
* `MATRIX_UID`/`MATRIX_GID`: UserID and GroupID of user within container which
  runs the synapse server. The files mounted under /data are `chown`ed to this
  ownership. Default is `MATRIX_UID=991` and `MATRIX_GID=991`. It can overriden
  via `-e MATRIX_UID=...` and `-e MATRIX_GID=...` at start time.

## build specific arguments

* `BV_SYN`: synapse version, optional, defaults to `master`
* `BV_TUR`: coturn turnserver version, optional, defaults to `master`

For building of synapse version v0.11.0-rc2 and coturn with commit a9fc47e add
`--build-arg BV_SYN=v0.11.0-rc2 --build-arg BV_TUR=a9fc47efd77` to the `docker
build` command.

## diff between system and fresh generated config file

To get a hint about new options etc you can do a diff between your configured
homeserver.yaml and a newly created config file. Call your image with `diff` as
argument.


```
$ docker run --rm -ti -v /tmp/data:/data avhost/docker-matrix diff
[...]
+# ldap_config:
+#   enabled: true
+#   server: "ldap://localhost"
+#   port: 389
+#   tls: false
+#   search_base: "ou=Users,dc=example,dc=com"
+#   search_property: "cn"
+#   email_property: "email"
+#   full_name_property: "givenName"
[...]
```

For generating of this output its `diff` from `busybox` used. The used diff
parameters can be changed through `DIFFPARAMS` environment variable. The
default is `Naur`.


## Exported volumes

* `/data`: data-container

Commit message:

Add example file for homeserver behind NAT

readme.md, after:

# Docker image for Matrix 

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AVENTER-UG/docker-matrix.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AVENTER-UG/docker-matrix)

## Docker Hub

[https://hub.docker.com/r/avhost/docker-matrix/tags/](https://hub.docker.com/r/avhost/docker-matrix/tags/)


## Security

We verify our image automaticly by clair. If you want to see the current security status, please have a look in [travis-ci](https://travis-ci.org/AVENTER-UG/docker-matrix).

## Introduction

Dockerfile for installation of [matrix] open federated Instant Messaging and
VoIP communication server.

The riot.im web client has now his own docker file at [github].

[matrix]: https://matrix.org
[github]: https://github.com/AVENTER-UG/matrix-riot-docker

## Contribution

If you want contribute to this project feel free to fork this project, do your
work in a branch and create a pull request.

To support this Dockerimage please pledge via [liberapay]. 

[liberapay]: https://liberapay.com/AVENTER

Silvio is the godfather of this image. So please be nice and pledge for him via [bountysource] or
[paypal.me/silviofricke]. 

[bountysource]: https://www.bountysource.com
[paypal.me/silviofricke]: https://www.paypal.me/SilvioFricke

## Configuration

To configure run the image with "generate" as argument. You have to setup the
server domain and a `/data`-directory. After this you have to edit the
generated homeserver.yaml file.

Please read the synapse [readme file] about configuration settings, 
there is also an [example setup](Example.configs.md) available to read.

[readme file]: https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/master/README.rst

To get the things done, "generate" will create a self-signed certificate, which
can be used for federation.

Example:

    $ docker run -v /tmp/data:/data --rm -e SERVER_NAME=localhost -e REPORT_STATS=no avhost/docker-matrix generate

## Start

For starting you need the port bindings and a mapping for the
`/data`-directory.

    $ docker run -d -p 8448:8448 -p 8008:8008 -p 3478:3478 -v /tmp/data:/data avhost/docker-matrix start

## Port configurations

### Matrix Homeserver

The following ports are used in the container for the Matrix server. You can use `-p`-option on
`docker run` to configure this part (eg.: `-p 443:8448`):  
`8008,8448 tcp`

### Coturn server

If you only need STUN to work you  need the following ports:  
`3478, 5349 udp/tcp`  
The server has the following as alt-ports: `3479, 5350 udp/tcp`

For TURN (using the server as a relay) you also need to forward this portrange:  
`49152-65535/udp`  

You may also have to set the external ip of the server in turnserver.conf which is located in the `/data` volume:  
`external-ip=XX.XX.XX.XX`

In case you don't want to expose the whole port range on udp you can change the portrange in turnserver.conf:  
`min-port=XXXXX`  
`max-port=XXXXX`  

## Version information

To get the installed synapse version you can run the image with `version` as
argument or look at the container via cat.

    $ docker run -ti --rm avhost/docker-matrix version
    -=> Matrix Version
    synapse: master (7e0a1683e639c18bd973f825b91c908966179c15)
    coturn:  master (88bd6268d8f4cdfdfaffe4f5029d489564270dd6)

    # docker exec -it CONTAINERID cat /synapse.version
    synapse: master (7e0a1683e639c18bd973f825b91c908966179c15)
    coturn:  master (88bd6268d8f4cdfdfaffe4f5029d489564270dd6)


## Environment variables

* `SERVER_NAME`: Server and domain name, mandatory, needed only  for `generate`
* `REPORT_STATS`: statistic report, mandatory, values: `yes` or `no`, needed
  only for `generate`
* `MATRIX_UID`/`MATRIX_GID`: UserID and GroupID of user within container which
  runs the synapse server. The files mounted under /data are `chown`ed to this
  ownership. Default is `MATRIX_UID=991` and `MATRIX_GID=991`. It can overriden
  via `-e MATRIX_UID=...` and `-e MATRIX_GID=...` at start time.

## build specific arguments

* `BV_SYN`: synapse version, optional, defaults to `master`
* `BV_TUR`: coturn turnserver version, optional, defaults to `master`

For building of synapse version v0.11.0-rc2 and coturn with commit a9fc47e add
`--build-arg BV_SYN=v0.11.0-rc2 --build-arg BV_TUR=a9fc47efd77` to the `docker
build` command.

## diff between system and fresh generated config file

To get a hint about new options etc you can do a diff between your configured
homeserver.yaml and a newly created config file. Call your image with `diff` as
argument.


```
$ docker run --rm -ti -v /tmp/data:/data avhost/docker-matrix diff
[...]
+# ldap_config:
+#   enabled: true
+#   server: "ldap://localhost"
+#   port: 389
+#   tls: false
+#   search_base: "ou=Users,dc=example,dc=com"
+#   search_property: "cn"
+#   email_property: "email"
+#   full_name_property: "givenName"
[...]
```

For generating of this output its `diff` from `busybox` used. The used diff
parameters can be changed through `DIFFPARAMS` environment variable. The
default is `Naur`.


## Exported volumes

* `/data`: data-container
